---
layout: post
title: Difference between Function, Method and Constructor calls in JavaScript.
---

### Difference between `Function`, `Method` and `Constructor` calls in JavaScript.
If your are familiar with Object-oriented programming, More likely familiar to thinking of functions, methods, and class constructors as three separate things. But In JavaScript, these are just three different usage patterns of one single construct.

functions : The simplest usages of function call:

```javascript
function helloWorld(name) {
  return "hello world, " + name;
}

helloWorld("JS Geeks"); // "hello world JS Geeks"
```

Methods in JavaScript are nothing more than object properties that reference to a function.

```javascript
var obj = {
  helloWorld : function() {
    return "hello world, " + this.name;
  },
  name: 'John Carter'
}
obj.helloWorld(); // // "hello world John Carter"
```

Notice how `helloWorld` refer to `this` properties of obj. Here it's clear or you might have already understood that `this` gets bound to `obj`. But the interesting point that we can copy a reference to the same function `helloWorld` in another object and get a difference answer. Let see:

```javascript
var obj2 = {
  helloWorld : obj.helloWorld,
  name: 'John Doe'
}
obj2.helloWorld(); // "hello world John Doe"
```

You might be wonder what exactly happens in a method call here. Here we call the expression itself determine the binding of this `this`, The expression `obj2.helloWorld()` looks up the `helloWorld` property of obj and calls it with receiver object `obj2`.

The third use of functions is as constructors. Like function and method, `constructors` are defined with function.

```javascript
function Employee(name, age) {
  this.name = name;
  this.age = age;
}

var emp1 = new Employee('John Doe', 28);
emp1.name; // "John Doe"
emp1.age; // 28
```

Unlike function calls and method calls, a constructor call `new Employee('John Doe', 28)` create a brand new object and passes it as the value of `this`, and implicitly returns the new object as its result.

The primary role of the constructor function is to initialize the object.