---
layout: post
title:  Write a mul function which will output when invoked as below syntax.
---

### Write a mul function which will output when invoked as below syntax.

```javascript
console.log(mul(2)(3)(4)); // output : 24
console.log(mul(4)(3)(4)); // output : 48
```

Below is code followed by an explanation how it works:

```javascript
function mul (x) {
  return function (y) { // anonymous function
    return function (z) { // anonymous function
      return x * y * z;
    };
  };
}
```

Here `mul` function accept the first argument and return anonymous function which take the second parameter and return anonymous function which take the third parameter and return multiplication of arguments which is being passed in successive.

In Javascript function defined inside has access to outer function variable and function is a first class object so it can be returned by a function as well and passed as the argument in another function.
- A function is an instance of the Object type
- A function can have properties and has a link back to its constructor method
- Function can be stored as variable
- Function can be pass as a parameter to another function
- Function can be returned from function

## Question 25
### What is the difference between a method and a function in javascript?
A function is a piece of code that is called by name and function itself not associated with any object and not defined inside any object. It can be passed data to operate on (i.e. parameter) and can optionally return data (the return value).

```javascript
// Function definition
function myFunc() {
  // Do some stuff;
}

// Calling function
myFunc();
```

Here myFunc() function call is not associated with object hence not invoked through any object.

A function can be self-invoking anonymous function or named self-invoking function

```javascript
// Named Self-invoking Function
(function myFunc() {
  // Do some stuff;
})();

// Anonymous Self-invoking Function
(function() {
  // Do some stuff;
})();
```

In a case of named self-invoking anonymous function or anonymous self-invoking function, there is no need of call function explicitly.

A method is a piece of code that is called by name and that is associated with the object. In most respects it is identical to function call except for some key difference:
- It is implicitly passed for the object for which it was called.
- It is able to operate on data that is contained within the class (remembering that an object is an instance of a class- the class is the definition, the object is an instance of that)
- Method call is always associated with object

```javascript
var methodObject = {
  attribute: "xyz",
  display: function () {  // Method
    console.log(this.attribute);
  }
};

// Call method
methodObject.display();
```

Here methodObject is an object and display is a method which is associated with methodObject.