---
layout: post
title: Components and Props in React ?
---

Components is a reusable component to create reusable pieces in isolation. In Technical term in React, Components is nothing but a function which take props and return React elements.

**_Function and Class Components_**

When React sees an element representing a user-defined component, it passes JSX attributes to this component as a single object. We call this object “props”.

**_Composing Components_**

Composing components is a great supported feature in React landscape, It's provide a way to Abstract Component for any level of details.

**_Extracting Components_**

We recommend naming props from the component’s own point of view rather than the context in which it is being used.

> A good rule of thumb is that if a part of your UI is used several times (Button, Panel, Avatar), or is complex enough on its own (App, FeedStory, Comment), it is a good candidate to be a reusable component.

**Props are Read-Only**

All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.

## State and Life Cycle

1.  componentDidMount
    
    This method runs after the component output has been rendered to the DOM.
    
2.  componentWillUnmount
    
    This method runs when the DOM element is removed.
    

State Update May be Asynchronous

React usually batch multiple setState call into a single update for performance.

Because this.props and this.state may be updated asynchronously, you should not rely on their values for calculating the next state.

```
// Wrong
this.setState({
  counter: this.state.counter + this.props.increment,
});

```

To fix it, use a second form of `setState()` that accepts a function rather than an object. That function will receive the previous state as the first argument, and the props at the time the update is applied as the second argument:

`// Correct this.setState((state, props) => ({ counter: state.counter + props.increment }));`
